>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There are some
validation styles that Angular is
automatically producing and attaching
to an element, if it's valid or not.
So the four big ones are ng-valid,
ng-invalid, ng-pristine and ng-untouched.
So valid, invalid,
obviously I think that makes sense.
Pristine is, is it in a clean position
like is it the way that we found it?
Untouched is have you
ever touched it at all?
The reason being is if a form element
is empty but a user hasn't touched it,
then you would not want
to run validation on it.
So a lot of times you wanna
say if it is untouched,
if you're saying should I
show this required error?
A lot of times you'll actually work is
this required, so is the form valid?
And has the form been touched?
Cuz if it hasn't, then don't run
validation til they've actually started
to work with it, and so
that's where that comes in.
And so, here you could just say
like if it's an invalid state,
maybe I wanna put a green border on or
something.
So you can actually attach these in, and
control how the element renders based
on this valid and invalid state.
So this is something Angular
is doing under the hood that,
it's just happening automatically
that you can tap into.
In fact, so you can even see in the demo,
we go over here,
that notice when I take this
away because it's saying
limitary it's already attaching
kind of a style to it.
And if I go here,
we'll see what comes to this.
Let me just zoom this in right here.
You can see it's automatically added
ng-touched, it's dirty and it's invalid.
So if I went back, so
let me just zoom this back down.
Yes, so I think it's this one.
It's a little bit hard to see but
as I start to type this in,
you can see now it's valid.
>> Speaker 2: But
if you are to refresh the page,
it's empty and
it's valid but not touched.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Right, so
it hasn't been touched.
[LAUGH] I guess I just,
well let's see how this registers.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
I have touched it and
it's now in invalid state.
But had I not, so
the minute I touched it it's like so
there's a bit kind of subsequency you'll
play around with depending on your needs.
>> Speaker 3: Does this for the form,
complete form or it's only for
the control level or form level?
Control level, right?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes,
so these run, let's see here.
So it's on the form level as well, equally
interesting.
>> Speaker 3: So
it's an R float everything-
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
you could do the validation so
watch, so the minute I touch this
form,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
that did not change, but this down here,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Did.
>> Speaker 4: It is changing on the form.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: So before
you
>> Speaker 5: No,
it does not change at the form level,
on the touching of,
it's still engine cached.
>> Speaker 4: But
why would it be?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now, so you have to
focus south, the menu you focus south.
>> Speaker 4: Okay.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So we can kind of go
down, and we're dancing here,
you know what?
But a lot of times, so Todd Mato, he has
some really good articles on Todd Motto,
on reactive forms.
And he has a really good post
on doing reactive forms.
And if you look at the validation
section of that, it's a lot of like,
if it's invalid and
it has been touched, show the error.
And so that's a pretty good example of
like, if this plus this, then show it.
>> Speaker 4: So when you refreshed at
the very beginning,
the form state is invalid.
So it hasn't been,
>> Speaker 4: Where's
the form?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah,
right there, untouched,
pristine, and invalid.
So until you make an action on it,
it's just saying, it hasn't been validated
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
I would need to actually
look at the source code but
there is some determination of,
if nobody's touched it,
this is- It starts as an invalid
form cuz it hasn't been filled.